# Custom Tasks

In addition to writing JSON according to the pipeline protocol for low-code development, MaaFramework also supports various ways to write custom code for implementing tasks:

- [FFI (Foreign Function Interface)](#ffi)  

  MaaFramework provides a C language API, and other languages can integrate relevant interfaces by calling bindings. In theory, it supports all mainstream languages.  
  However, the number of currently adapted bindings is limited, and you may need to write your own (we also welcome you to submit a PR after completing it!).  
  Advantages: Relatively high execution efficiency, more in line with standard programming paradigms.

- [Executor Agent](#executor-agent)  

  In simple terms, developers can write their own executable (exe) and pass the exe path through MaaToolkit interfaces. When MaaFramework reaches the corresponding task, it calls the exe, passing in the current screen's image, recognization result, task name, and other information as parameters.  
  Developers can perform any operation in their exe and can output commands directly (print / std::cout / ...) following the [protocol](#input-output-protocol). MaaFramework captures these output commands through a pipeline to execute actions such as clicking, sliding, screenshot recognition, etc. The results are then passed back through the pipeline, which can be obtained through standard input (input / std::cin / ...).  
  The term "exe" here refers to any executable file, including exe, bat, shell, Python scripts, etc. (also supports executable files under Linux / macOS).  
  Advantages: Easy to implement.

## FFI

You can implement [custom actions](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/include/MaaFramework/Task/MaaCustomAction.h) and [custom recognizers](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/include/MaaFramework/Task/MaaCustomRecognizer.h) and pass them to [registration interfaces](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/include/MaaFramework/Instance/MaaInstance.h#L20).  
The `MaaSyncContextHandle` can be used through [the interface](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/include/MaaFramework/Task/MaaSyncContext.h) to invoke more clicking, sliding, screenshot recognition, etc.  
Please refer to the [Sample](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/sample/cpp/main.cpp#L90).

## Executor Agent

### Launch Parameters

#### Custom Recognizer

For custom recognizers, the launch parameters are:

```shell
/path/to/my_recognizer.exe  custom_arg_1  custom_arg_2  ...  sync_context  image_path  task_name  custom_recognition_param
```

- `/path/to/my_recognizer.exe`  

  The path to the executable file passed through the registration interface. If it is a script like Python, you can also directly pass `Python.exe`.

- `custom_arg_1  custom_arg_2  ...`  

  Custom parameters passed through the registration interface (multiple parameters). If it is a script like Python, the first parameter is the path to your `.py` file.

- `sync_context`  

  Information needed when outputting commands to MaaFramework according to the protocol. See [Input-Output Protocol](#input-output-protocol) for details.

- `image_path`  

  File path of the current screen's screenshot image.

- `task_name`  

  The name of the task currently being executed.

- `custom_recognition_param`  

  The value of `custom_recognition_param` defined in the pipeline JSON.

#### Custom Action

For custom actions, the launch parameters are:

```shell
/path/to/my_action.exe  custom_arg_1  custom_arg_2  ...  sync_context  task_name  custom_action_param  cur_box  cur_rec_detail
```

- `/path/to/my_action.exe`  

  The path to the executable file passed through the registration interface. If it is a script like Python, you can also directly pass `Python.exe`.

- `custom_arg_1  custom_arg_2  ...`  

  Custom parameters passed through the registration interface (multiple parameters). If it is a script like Python, the first parameter is the path to your `.py` file.

- `task_name`  

  The name of the task currently being executed.

- `sync_context`  

  Information needed when outputting commands to MaaFramework according to the protocol. See [Input-Output Protocol](#input-output-protocol) for details.

- `custom_action_param`  

  The value of `custom_action_param` defined in the pipeline JSON.

- `cur_box`  

  The current target position recognized by the task recognizer. Format is JSON array [x, y, w, h].

- `cur_rec_detail`  

  Detailed information recognized by the task recognizer. Format is JSON, specific protocol to be added~.

### Input-Output Protocol

TODO
