# Custom Tasks

In addition to using the pipeline protocol to write JSON for low-code development, MaaFramework also supports various ways to write code for custom tasks. Currently, there are several main approaches:

- [FFI (Foreign Function Interface)](#ffi)

  This framework provides a C language API, and other languages can integrate relevant interfaces by calling bindings. In theory, it supports all mainstream languages, although the number of adapted bindings is currently limited and may require you to write your own (feel free to submit a PR after doing so!).  
  Advantages: Relatively high execution efficiency, more in line with standard programming paradigms.

- [Executor Proxy](#executor-proxy)

  In simple terms, developers can write their own executable (exe) and pass the exe path through MaaToolkit interfaces. When MaaFramework reaches the corresponding task, it calls the exe, passing in the current screen's image, task information, and other custom parameters as command-line arguments.  
  Developers can perform additional actions in their exe and can output commands directly (print / std::cout / ...) following the [protocol](#input-output-protocol). MaaFramework captures these outputs through a pipeline to execute more tasks such as taking screenshots, clicking, sliding, recognition, etc. The results are then passed back through the pipeline, which can be obtained through standard input (input / std::cin / ...).  
  The exe can be any executable file, including exe, bat, shell, Python scripts, etc. (also supports executable files under Linux / macOS).  
  Advantages: Simple.

## FFI

Integrate [custom actions](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/include/MaaFramework/Task/MaaCustomAction.h) and [custom recognizers](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/include/MaaFramework/Task/MaaCustomRecognizer.h) using relevant [registration interfaces](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/include/MaaFramework/Instance/MaaInstance.h#L20). The `MaaSyncContextHandle` can be used to invoke more recognition, screenshots, clicks, slides, etc. Please refer to the [Sample](https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaFramework/blob/main/sample/cpp/main.cpp#L90).

## Executor Proxy

### Launch Parameters

#### Custom Recognizer

For custom recognizers, the launch parameters are:

```shell
/path/to/my_recognizer.exe  custom_arg_1  custom_arg_2  ...  sync_context  image_path  task_name  custom_recognition_param
```

- `/path/to/my_recognizer.exe`

  The path to the executable file passed through the registration interface. If it is a script like Python, you can also directly pass `Python.exe`.

- `custom_arg_1  custom_arg_2  ...`

  Custom parameters passed through the registration interface (multiple parameters). If it is a script like Python, the first parameter is the path to your `.py` file.

- `sync_context`

  Information needed when outputting commands to MaaFramework according to the protocol. See [Input-Output Protocol](#input-output-protocol) for details.

- `image_path`

  File path of the current screen's screenshot image.

- `task_name`

  The name of the task currently being executed.

- `custom_recognition_param`

  The value of `custom_recognition_param` defined in the pipeline JSON.

#### Custom Action

For custom actions, the launch parameters are:

```shell
/path/to/custom_action.exe  custom_arg_1  custom_arg_2  ...  sync_context  task_name  custom_action_param  cur_box  cur_rec_detail
```

- `/path/to/custom_action.exe`

  The path to the executable file passed through the registration interface. If it is a script like Python, you can also directly pass `Python.exe`.

- `custom_arg_1  custom_arg_2  ...`

  Custom parameters passed through the registration interface (multiple parameters). If it is a script like Python, the first parameter is the path to your `.py` file.

- `task_name`

  The name of the task currently being executed.

- `sync_context`

  Information needed when outputting commands to MaaFramework according to the protocol. See [Input-Output Protocol](#input-output-protocol) for details.

- `custom_action_param`

  The value of `custom_action_param` defined in the pipeline JSON.

- `cur_box`

  The current target position recognized by the task recognizer. Format is JSON array [x, y, w, h].

- `cur_rec_detail`

  Detailed information recognized by the task recognizer. Format is JSON, specific protocol to be added~.

### Input-Output Protocol

TODO
