# MaaHttp

This project is the HTTP binding of MaaFramework. It provides the corresponding HTTP requests for most of MaaFramework C API.

> Currently, custom controller is not supported.

## Master & Slave

MaaHttp provides a master-slave multiprocess mode. By default, launching MaaHttp let it enter master mode. This process won't provide interface of MaaFramework. Instead, it provides the ability to create, destroy slave. The created slave would provide interface of MaaFramework.

```bash
./bin/MaaHttp
deamon started at 127.0.0.1:13126
```

Meanwhile, you can directly launch MaaHttp in the slave mode, via `-s` option. The serving port will be printed.

```bash
./bin/MaaHttp -s
57243
```

With `-p [port]` option, you can specify the serving port. By default, in master mode the port would use `13126`, while in slave mode MaaHttp would use a random available port.

## OpenAPI

Both master and slave mode server provide its OpenAPI 3.0 document at route `/help`.

## Master mode

### `/cfgread` and `/cfgwrite`

This two route provide the ability to save and load a json object, which stored in `MaaHttpConfig.json`.

### `/create`

Request a new slave, returning the serving port.

### `/destroy`

Release a slave.

### `/heart`

Notify that the corresponding slave is still being used. MaaHttp check all slaves each 60s, and those over 30s will be killed.

## Slave mode

### `/api/*`

MaaFramework function.

Note: Some function may returning more than one result, thus don't simply picking the `return` property.

### `/handle/[HANDLE]/strip`

Clean all temp `HANDLE` handle.

Currently, only `MaaGetImageListAt` uses this feature. The handle returned by this function isn't managed by MaaHttp, thus MaaHttp only provides a weak ref over it.

### `/handle/[HANDLE]/dump`

Dump all `HANDLE` handle, for debugging purpose.

### `/callback/[CALLBACK]/new`

Request a new `CALLBACK` callback instance. The returnning string is the handle of this callback that used to pass to functions like `MaaCreate`.

### `/callback/[CALLBACK]/free`

Release a `CALLBACK` callback instance.

### `/callback/[CALLBACK]/query`

Query all call instance for a certain `CALLBACK` callback. This route would block, until over 5s or a call instance occurred.

Note: Call instance won't be removed after querying, thus you may got some duplicated instance if you don't resolve them before.

> Ref: Long polling

### `/callback/[CALLBACK]/req`

Get the corresponding param for a certain call instance.

### `/callback/[CALLBACK]/res`

Set the corresponding returning for a certain call instance. After this route finished, the call instance would be removed and won't be returned from query.

### `/callback/[CALLBACK]/dump`

Dump all `CALLBACK` callback instance, for debugging purpose.
